Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.--> With which we will solve problems by telling computer what to be computed and how to be computed. And programming language
we eventually create a program which is executed and can also be termed as a software.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.--> Jdk will have built in codes which we will use in our program
    will have JRE to push .class files to JVM.
    Also will have  compiler (Javac to compile java program )and
      interpreter (eg. Java to execute java program).

What is IDE?
A.--> Integrated Development Environment. These are softwares like notepads where in we can write programs and execute them.
 IDE is a software for software developer to create a software.
 Example: Ellipse, intellij

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.--> Eclipse,intellij, netbeans  etc..

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.--> Editor (Eclipse ) —> Source code —> Java Complier (javac) —> Bytecodes(classname.class) —> JVM —> Operating System.

what is class?
--> class is instance of an Object. or we can say Class is a blueprint of an Object

What is object?
--> Object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
--> main method is an entry point of an application

Why main is static?
-->When we declare main method static  under a class  we do not need to create an object to access properties of a class.
 Simply use that method invoke to jvm . Main method is the entry point of java application.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
--> Object class is the super class of all class in Java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
-->Classpath is a directory in java .Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path,
and path is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
--> Abstraction is implementation hiding. Abstract class contains concrete class and abstract class
In abstract class ,we can have both non-abstract method which is implemented and abstract method which is non implemented
and Interface contain 100% abstract class. we can declare only method and not allow to write method body. if we don't
know how to implement those method then we declare interface and need class to implement those method(interface).

and We are not allow to create or instantiate an object from an interface or an abstract class



Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
--> No.
Either we can extend/implement the Abstract class/interface in a new class, create the object of this new class and
then use this object as per your need.
Interface --> Abstract class --> concrete class


what is Access Specifier?
-->Access specifier allow or don’t allow access or we can say who can access class , method.
Example: public , private, protected,default.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
--> Object oriented programming.
Features are :
Abstraction: Abstraction is implementation hiding
encapsulation: encapculation is data hiding
inheritance:
polymorphism:

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
-->

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
--> Application program interface.


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
--> No. Java doesn't support multiple inheritance . we can inherit one time at a time, but if we have multiple
interface to connect to that class and extend one class at a time.
so in java multiple inheritance not allow but allow multiple interface at the same time.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
--> Method overloading is method name is same and parameter/ signature is different. it happen compile time.
Example:
    public int areaOfLand(int a, int b) {
         		int total = a+b;
         		return total;
         	}

         	public int areaOfLand(int a, int b,int c) {
         		int total = a+b+c;
         		return total;
  So we can pass different parameter , based on passing parameter those method will be called.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
-->


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
--> Static keyword is belongs to class . when we declare variable or method as static no need to create an object.
Example : public static int num =256;
          public static void speed(){}




What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
--> Final can be used in terms of variable and method. you can not change when we declare final;
    Example : Public final String  name = “nazmul”;

    In subclass you cannot change if we declare method final.
    Example :
    Public final int num(int a, int b)
    {
    int total = a+b.
    return total;
    }


What is final, finally and finalize?
-->
Final --Final can be used in terms of variable and method. you can not change when we declare final;

Finally --
After try catch block - finally block get executed regardless we have successful operation or not.
regardless of operations successful or not finally block get executed.

Finalize -
 java has automatic garbage collector , we create a object and when object no longer needed by program garbage
 collector disconnect that or set null like  garbage collector destroy object. Finalize method use for destroy the object.



What is a constructor ?
--> Constructor is a blue print of class and has no return type . It used for initialize the object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
--> yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
--> default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
-->  this is a reference variable which points to current object
        this.name i.e. left hand side(LHS) means attribute of Object
   	    name on Right hand side(RHS) means input of method

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
--> "Super" can be used from one class to access it’s super class’s variable , constructor and methods
"Super" keyword use to initialize super class constructor and "super" keyword can access super class method.
In subclass we can use super keyword to use super class properties like method and variable.

What is JVM stand for ?
--> JVM is java virtual machine is a system software which runs in the OS and helps the OS to execute java Application .
It executes .class files I.e. ByteCodes.

Is JVM platform independent?
-->yes . As it is pre-installed on all the OS’s for Desktops, java becomes platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
--> java version "1.8.0_241"

What is JAR stand for ?
A.--> JAR stands for Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
-—> Java development kit. Jdk will have built in codes which we will use in our program and will have
 JRE to push .class files to JVM.  Also will have  compiler (Javac to compile java program )and
 interpreter (eg. Java to execute java program).

and JVM is java virtual machine is a system software which runs in the OS and helps the OS to execute java Application .
  It executes .class files I.e. ByteCodes.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
-->  JVM is java virtual machine is a system software which runs in the OS and helps the OS to execute java Application .
     It executes .class files I.e. ByteCodes.

 And JRE(java Runtime Environment) to push .class files to JVM.


What is compile time and run time?
-->

What is heap?
-->heap is the part of memory. another part of memory's are Stack and code segment.

How java manage it's memory?
-->

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
-->

What is Singleton class?
--> Singleton is to control object creating, limiting the number of objects.


What is Serialization and Deserialization?
-->

when to use transient variable in java?
-->

Difference between while and do..while loop?
--> While Loop
 check condition first, if true then goes to loop
 If false then didn't go to the loop
Example:
    		int num=0;
    		while(num>=1) {

    			System.out.println(num);
    			num--;

Do..While Loop
Do something then check the condition
Example:
    int num = 0;
		do {
			System.out.println(" hi having fun ");
		}while (num<=0);
		num --;


What is Enum?
--> Enum s a way of representing  predefined constant data so  we can declare and Enum can be pass into class, method and constructor.


What is Iterator?
-->

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.--> int is a primitive data type which takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store and
    Integer is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store int value
so Integer take more memory..

Why is String Immutable in Java?
--> Strings are IMMUTABLE. i.e. when we perform manipulation operation, we get a new String and old String remains same
   and We cannot modify a String.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
--> Calling a constructor from the another constructor of same class is known as Constructor chaining.



The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
-->

What is JIT stands for?
A.--> JIT Stands for Just-In-Time .JIT compiler is a component of the runtime environment that improves the
performance of Java™ applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
-->

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
-->

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.--> Stack -- Store  variable and when we call method it goes to stack
       Heap-- All object store in heap

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
-->

what is multithreading in java?
-->

What is the use of synchronization in Java?

What is Framework?

What are the testing Framework available in java?

Difference between jUnit and testNG?

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
--> Static binding is method overloading and dynamic binding is method overriding.









